You can't deadlift without pulling,
right? You have to pull, but you can
deadlift without pushing. You have to
earn the right to add weight to the bar.
Now, I know the technical people at home
are going to say, "Well, how did you
hurt yourself doing a squat, then?"
Yeah, good question. Because sometimes,
what's the weakest link? Leg day. Now, I
got two leg days a week. And as promised
from my last session, I'm going to try
and keep my promise. We're going to
start with deadlifts. So, even though I
start with deadlifts, I always like to
warm up my
knees with the
same no weight leg press through the
balls of the feet, maximizing knee band,
get my knees nice and warm. So, if you
guys watched my last deadlift session,
sorry, my last squat session, I did a
300 kg squat, top set, and then I wanted
to do two back down sets, but I hurt my
I don't know if it was adductor or
hamstring. It's pretty hard to tell. It
could even be hamstring. Executive
decision one back down set only. Call it
what you want. Bitching out. I don't
know. Maybe. But I'll tell you now, I
feel a slight strain in my adductor. I'm
lucky I did because probably an hour
after my session, um, I was limping and
it's been kind of painful ever since.
But get this. So that was on Monday.
It's Friday now. And every day was tight
but getting a little bit better.
Today, strangely enough, it feels kind
of okay. Like there's a bit of tension
there. I can feel it, but it feels okay
enough to give it a go at least. So,
what I'm going to do is try and
deadlift. And this is going to be the
start of my deadlift
block. So, if you guys remember, there
was a squat specialization program that
got me to 300 kg. And the idea of my
programming is squats and deadlifts,
they interfere with each other for
recovery. And if you try and do heavy
deadlifts on the same weeks as heavy
squats, it's hard for both of them to
increase at the same time. So that's why
my last phase was focusing on squats.
But deadlifts were just like an
accessory. I was doing stiff-legged
deadlifts and then I hit my squat
target. So now I thought what I'm going
to do is flip that. So I'm going to
prioritize deadlift and keep my squats
as an accessory. There's a lot of
differences. So squats are just not as
fatiguing as deadlifts. So it's not
going to be the same way. So, with the
deadlifts, all I did was stiff-legged
deadlifts and lots and lots of squats.
I'm not just going to do lots and lots
of deadlifts and only a small squat
variation. That doesn't make sense. You
can't do high volume deadlift programs.
Well, you can, but I just don't think
that they work very well. So, what I'm
going to do is deadlift once a
week until I get to my first goal, which
I could be at. So, my first goal is 310.
And if I am there already, then I'll um
I'll change that goal to 320 kg. You
know, my goal should be 320 because 310
is not that good considering I can squat
300. You know what I'm saying? That's
what my goal is going to be. I'm going
to deadlift every week until I get to a
320. I don't know where I'm at. That's
what we're going to test today. So, when
I say test, I'm not going to do a one
rep max test. I'm just going to feel it.
I want to do a top single, but it won't
be a max. I want it to be
comfortable.
And this is my introduction to
deadlifts. And I'll tell you what my
accessories are going to be. More quad
work because quad work is very good.
It's my favorite accessory exercise to
help your deadlift. So get this. Thor
Bjönson when I met him, he had a 450 kg
deadlift. And I asked him what his squat
was and he didn't know. He said, "I kind
of just squat 200 kg for reps." And cuz
it's not a competition lift in in
Strongman, so I don't really test my
squat strength. And I said to him,
"That's strange. Don't you think if
you're the world's strongest man, you
should be squatting at least 400 kg?"
And he said, "That sounds like a good
idea." Uh anyway, long story short, we
got him to 460 kg. Uh and then the next
year he deadlifted 501 kg. Now that I'm
on my deadlift specialization
phase, I still deadlift once a week and
lots and lots of quadricep work. And
today we're starting with a conventional
deadlift. I'm going to see where I'm at.
I might do a few back down uh sets,
skill work only, and then I'm going to
do some quad
work deadlifts. I'm starting with 70 kg.
Um and I'll probably do a couple of sets
just to feel the technique. I'm going to
change my I put the knee sleeves on for
the warm up, but now I'm just going to
put
my kind of like these are my elbow
sleeves. I'll put them over my shins.
This is something that I like to do with
my deadlifts is
use a knee sleeve or something
equivalent over the shins, which is
going to allow me to keep the bar
close and not bruise the hell out of my
shins. So, you know, to be honest with
you, when I'm deadlifting, I don't
really touch my shins that much, but if
I do, I don't want to worry about it
bleeding, right? bleeding on the bar.
It's gross. Unhygienic. So, my footwear
for deadlift is usually bare feet, but
it's
cold. So, I'm going to wear my boxing
shoes. This is kind of just my training
shoes really or my lower body training
shoes. So, that's for my squats. I'll
use the same ones. That's totally fine.
Um, but when I'm deadlifting heavy,
you'll see me I'll be wearing no shoes.
We're doing that bare feet. And in
competition, I like to wear just uh
equivalent to bare feet, which is a
deadlift slipper. It's pretty strange
because you, you know, the rule is you
have to have, you know, a shoe or
something covering your foot for
protection. And when people see, it's a
very common thing when people see on
social media if you're bare feet,
they're like, "Oh, watch out. What if
you drop something on your foot?" I'll
tell you now, if you drop something on
your foot with these shoes on, it's not
really going to do much to protect you
anyway. Uh especially the deadlift
slipper. So, I believe that the rule is
there um from an insurance standpoint.
Like that's what it is in gyms. Gyms
don't allow bare feet. A lot of gyms or
the insuranceances don't don't allow
bare feet um because of safety. But if
you drop these heavy weights on your
toes, um the shoes aren't going to do
much to protect you. But either way, um
my footwear of choice for a deadlift in
competition is the deadlift slipper,
which is equivalent to bare feet. Um,
and right now I'm wearing these shoes
because they're comfortable and it's
cold in Sydney all of a sudden. What's
the date today? Is it the 1st of May?
2nd of May. Yeah. So, 2nd of May. So,
May is when it starts to cool down. So,
the last time I deadlifted was about a
month ago and I did 300. Like, it was
just like a one-off session. It was
really strange. Um, well, conventional
deadlift. I'm really lying because I was
doing stifflegged deadlifts. So, I got
up to uh sets of five on 220 kg
stiff-legged deadlifts. That was my
accessory exercise. So, I wasn't doing
no deadlifts. Uh but that's all I was
doing. And yeah, I came in and I did a
300 kg deadlift on day one. Since then,
I didn't do much. Um I did more RDL's
with lighter weights and more reps, but
no conventional deadlifts. So, let's
see. The number I have in mind today is
based on these red plates. I like the
red plates and I'm thinking 270. I'd
like to do a single on 270 today just to
feel it and then maybe some back down
work on something a little bit lighter.
So maybe like 220. The way that I like
to use the
belt is a high belt position. How
strange you might be thinking. So this
is something that I learned from uh one
of my early mentors, Eric Liybridge, who
was is still one of the best
powerliffters on the planet. He had a
480 kg squat in the 140 class. Super
strong guy. him and his dad, Ernie
Senior, came to Sydney and we did
seminars together in
201 14, 2014. And I learned a ton of
good information from these guys on how
to lift, how to compete, how to get
strong. These guys made me really
strong. Uh, and this is how Eric
Liybridge uses a belt in his deadlift,
which was strange for me at first, but
then it kind of started to make sense
after a while. So, it's just a really
comfortable position. There's other
great deadlifterss that use this, but
it's a preference thing. Thor Bjönson
has the belt down here and that's where
he feels the most support. So, it's not
as if I think this is better than any
other position. It is for me, but maybe
not for you. But I know that a lot of
people that try this high belt position
also like it. Anyway, set number one.
Let's go. So, check this out. Feet
hipwidth stance, barbell in line with
midfoot. Okay, so that's the middle of
my shoe, right? So, that's the center of
my base of support, right? So that's
where when you're maxing out, the
barbell won't leave the ground if it's
not in line with the center of your base
of support. If it's forward, it won't
leave the ground. That's maximum loads.
Okay? So you want to keep it in line
with the center of the base of support.
And then when I get in position, when I
bend down to grab the bar, my shins will
gently touch the bar. Okay? So that's
how deep you should be sitting into the
movement. So you So from here, the
barbell is about 1 to 2 in away from my
shins. But then when I reach
down, it's gently touching. That's how I
know stop bending your knees. Don't bend
even further than that because that's
going to push the barbell forward from
the center of my base of support. Okay?
So, hipwidth stance, barbell in line
with midoot. The next thing I do, reach
down. Okay? So, I don't just grab the
bar. I'm stretching my arms down as far
as possible. Okay? And when I do that, I
feel my my pecs contract. Okay? So,
that's lower pecs in particular. and
also kind of lats. But then if you
really want to get lats on, so you push
down and that way. Okay, so that's
armpits to pelvis, right? So that's a
really strong back position that
recruits the upper back muscles or
especially the lats and it helps keep
the back rigid. Okay, so reach down and
back.
Ready?
Feels okay. Feels feels a little bit of
stiffness on the left
side. Little bit, but so far so good.
Does it matter where I hold the barbell?
Absolutely. So, what I want to do is be
on the outside of my legs, right? But
the most efficient position is arms
straight down, right? So this is another
reason why like a lot of people kind of
they go, you know, strong base of
support, nice and
wide, maybe in a squat, but in a
deadlift, unfortunately, what happens
here is my arms need to go on the
outside of that. The wider my grip, the
longer I need to travel. That makes the
movement inefficient, right? So the most
efficient position is where the arms are
straight down. That's when my arms are
the longest and I travel the least
distance, making the deadlift as easy
and as efficient as possible. Right? So,
that's another reason why we want hip
width and arms just on the outside of
that,
ideally straight down. Now, look at my
proportions, you know, and and a lot of
guys have broader shoulders and narrower
hips. A lot of women that I work with
have slightly different proportions.
They have wider hips and narrower
shoulders. So, a lot of the times a
female's stance might look a little bit
more like that. So proportionately their
stance might be a little bit wider and
as a result their arms need to be on the
outside of that and that's also okay. So
I say ideal is arms straight down but
leg drive takes priority. So if you've
got broader hips and narrower shoulders
get the stance right and put the arms
just on the outside of that. I want to
get my coffee. When I say I want to get
my coffee I want someone to get my
coffee cuz I want to train. So that's
what I normally do. So I've got um gym
upstairs. So we got base gym downstairs.
Uh, and then we got Bass Body Studio
upstairs, which is the women's only
facility. And at some point, someone
always needs to go grab a coffee and
they send a message saying, "Anyone want
a coffee?" And that's my hack. I just
wait for that. Like, yes, please. And a
tea. So, I'm waiting for someone to get
me my coffee. Even though I've had one,
had a coffee this morning, I still want
a coffee for the session. I gave you the
main cues, which is stance, hip width,
shins, well, barbell over midfoot. I was
going to say shins an inch inch or two
away from the bar, but barbell over
midfoot and arms long and and back,
right? But then the next cue that we
pair with that is reach the crown of the
head to towards the ceiling. So I want
to stretch my spine, right? So that
doesn't mean head up. Okay, there's a
difference between head up and crown of
the head to the ceiling. So you got to
imagine someone's grabbing you by the
head and Okay, so that's stretch this
part like where I would wear my crown if
I was a king towards the ceiling.
Another way of thinking about that is
increase the distance between your ears
and your shoulders. So no
shrugging. That's an error that people
make is they shrug. That made my arms
shorter. Look where my arms are in my
waist. I want arms down. So shoulders
away from your ears, right?
So belt. Okay, this is unique to
yourself, right?
Okay. Hipwidth stance, barbell over
midoot. Reach down and back. Head to
ceiling.
Okay. Why did you drop the weight? Great
question. I'm glad you asked. Well,
don't go do that at a commercial gym.
You'll get a lot of upset people because
it's loud and obnoxious, but we're not
in a commercial
gym. We're in my gym. There's not a huge
amount of people here. And the people
that are here deadlift as well. And this
is a deadlift platform with plates that
are designed to drop in that manner.
Now, something about the way that I drop
it. A bit of a discussion is people say,
you know, you should lower it under
control. This allows you to get benefits
from the eccentric portion of the lift.
Sure, there might be some benefits, but
in my opinion, I'm lifting heavy weights
with all of my lifts. And actually, the
eccentric portion of a lift is more
fatiguing than the concentric portion.
So, something I'm always wanting to do,
you've seen my week. I maxed out on
squats this week. I maxed out on bench
press this week. So, a lot of that's
really
fatiguing. So, I need to recover from
those sessions. If I'm worried about,
you know, slowing my eccentrics down and
and, you know, to max out all of my, you
know, to, you know, my muscle building
potential and all of those things, um,
I'm not factoring in fatigue. So, that's
something I always love to do with
deadlifts. Deadlifts are a highly
fatiguing exercise. Okay? So, I don't
want to do my eccentric portion if I
don't have to.
lot of new research out talking about
which part of the lift is more
beneficial for strength gain and muscle
gain and a lot of people used to talk
myself included about you know eccentric
lowering and slow eccentrics and there's
so many more benefits there um actually
they found that it's more beneficial uh
you get more hypertrophy from the
concentric portion than the eccentric
portion so you know for the the slow
eccentric crew there does there is a
place for slow eccentrics uh but when it
comes to Like I think the slow eentrics
are great for technique and and
understanding bar path and understanding
how to stay tight under load. But if
your goal is to get as strong as
possible and build as much muscle as
possible, the concentric portion is more
beneficial than the eccentric portion.
So there's my two cents on um whether
you should lower it under control or
not. If I was at a commercial gym, I
would lower it under control just
because I don't want to upset all of the
other lifters.
[Applause]
feels comfortable. I'm going to do a few
singles on this weight just to Yeah.
skill work. That's my warm-up. So, a lot
of people um I believe and myself
included watched a video ages ago, many
many years ago. The first man who
deadlifted 1,000 p pounds, his name is
Andy Bolton. And he put out a video once
upon a time where he was doing deadlifts
with, you know, heavy weights. He did
one red plate aside, two red plates,
three red plates, four red plates. And
as he was deadlifting, he was exploding
the concentric uh so much that it was
flying off his hip. So he'd pick it up,
whack, and it and it'd fly off his hips.
And so a lot of people copied that
because he was the best in the world. I
copied it as well. And it made a lot of
sense. You got to lift fast. So if
there's any sticking points, it travels
through the sticking point. Um anyhow,
over the years, I've changed my
perspective on that. And I think um fast
is good, but not at the expense of
technique. I don't want to lift so fast
that it takes it through sticking
points. I don't want sticking points. a
tattoo on Conor McGregor's arm which
says, "Slow is smooth. Smooth is fast."
Now, I know it's from the Navy. It's not
his It's not his quote, so don't get
upset with me saying that. That's just
where I learned it from. From his
tattoo, slow is smooth, smooth is fast.
You know, that applies a lot with a lot
of the lifts here. Okay? So, something
that I often teach is to start slow, to
learn slow, and then introduce speed.
Don't start fast, right? So, start slow,
master the technique, and then introduce
speed. Don't start fast and then
introduce technique. Do you get it? So,
the idea is it's not that I'm trying to
be slow. I'm trying to be smooth.
Someone asked me a question. Um,
actually Mitch Hooper asked me a
question about Thor's deadlift. He said,
"Can you please explain to me what
you're trying to do with his deadlift
when you like why do you lift slow?" And
it's like, oh, I don't think anyone's
lifted 1,000 lb as fast as him ever,
raw, um, or equipped or 500 kg as fast
as him ever. Right? He's not trying to
lift the lightweights fast. He's trying
to lift them all smoothly. So, there's a
fellow by the name of Boris Shiko. Uh,
he's a powerlifting coach, very
well-known Russian powerlifting coach,
and he talks about like with
powerlifting compared to weightlifting.
So, if there's 120 kg on the bar, you
put just enough force to lift 120
kg smoothly. If it's weightlifting, so
if you're going to do a snatch, you've
got to put a lot more force through the
bar so it explodes up. But powerlifting
is is not like you never see in a
competition someone maxing out on a
deadlift fast. They're grinding. Okay.
So, when people practice it with this uh
this hitch and this well well exploding
the weight, I think it teaches the wrong
pattern. So anyway, so that's what I'm
focusing on. I'm focusing on slow is
smooth, smooth is fast. Okay. So let's
do the technique thing
again. Good one. Is my background on
that? Thoracic. Isn't that interesting?
Well, let's have a look at what thoracic
spine means. So let's have a look at the
skeleton. So this is the natural
curvature of a spine. There is natural
rounding in the thoracic spine. Right
now, a lot of people talk about straight
back, neutral spine, all of these
things. Um, I'm not too fussed with with
neutral, uh, because everyone's slightly
different. Um, here's a statistic for
you. There's not a single deadlift world
record that's ever been performed, uh,
with a, you know, with an arch spine.
There's always some degree of flexion.
This is what I'm aiming for. Rigid
torso, right? So, what does rigid mean?
Rigid means whatever position you're in,
whatever you start in, you want to kind
of stay in that position and not be
pulled further into flexion under load.
Does that make sense? So, if it's being
pulled further into flexion under load,
it means the muscles aren't able to
support that weight. So, what you're
doing is you're resting on, you know,
the discs of your spine, which your
discs are strong and your your spine is
strong. So, don't be scared of that. But
if you do that repeatedly with max
loads, that's when you start running
into back pain, right? So if you're
doing a rigid torso from start to
finish, that means your muscles are
lifting the weight. You're not resting
on the discs and your spine, right? So
So that's a good indicator is it's it's
okay to be slightly rounded as long as
it doesn't get pulled further into
flexion because the weight is so heavy
in your
training, okay? Not in competition. In
competition, you just get the thing up,
right? And your back will probably be
fine because you're not training like
that every single week. you're training
with your muscles lifting the weight.
You're not training um you know by
maxing out all the time. So have a look
at my back as we progress through the
the weights. My aim is to maintain a
rigid spine. I wouldn't mind seeing what
the shape of it looks like. Um if
there's a little bit of rounding,
fine, but I wouldn't mind having a look.
Why don't you come side on and check my
next set? Well, this one's not going to
round my back. It's only 120 kg.
So that's uh I don't think that would
have rounded my back. Now we'll go up an
extra round plate. So 170 next.
Yeah, that's uh
Shalen. That's Shalen. She's doing the
same technique
actually. We're all trying to do the
same technique here in base gym. We're
all taught by the same
person. This
guy. This guy.
Feels
good. That feels
um I mean it's only 170 so it should
feel like that. But I'll do another set
and then I'll
go 220.
all that fuss for like a third of a
second. Look how funny it is. Like it
takes so much time to set up and do all
those all those things and then the lift
is over. Anyhow, I guess that's a good
thing, isn't it? One more set. No rest.
No, like I rested. What was that? A
minute. You know, it's not fatigue. This
session is all about
technique.
Here's another cue for
you. Something about eye position and
head position. I'll always say to keep
your eyes locked on one spot and
actually not just your eyes, your face,
right? So, I like to say, you know,
everyone's different, different levels
of mobility, but typically if I was to
say like a one sizefits-all approach,
most people would work really well. Pick
a spot about 3 m ahead of you on the
floor, right? And look there with your
whole face. So that means when you're at
the bottom, your head's slightly up,
right? Watch me. I'm I'm going to
reenact. So my head's slightly up. So
that's crown of the head to the ceiling.
But then when I come up, my face is
still in that direction. So it's
slightly up at the bottom and then
slightly down at the lockout. Right? So
why do I want it slightly down at the
lockout? A lot of times when people's
heads lift and their their focal point
changes, it changes your balance and
your orientation. When your head lifts,
people often lean back too far. Um,
which is inefficient. You want to be
stacked. So, in a powerlifting
competition, you want to be completely
vertical. I don't want to talk too much
about back pain. Like, I've lent back
and in competitions and it's fine, you
know, but technically if you lean back
too far under load, that's when So, this
is when you're bending forward too much,
that's usually discreated injuries. When
you're bending back too much, that's
usually facet joint related aggravation.
I don't want to say injury, make you
think you're going to injure yourself
just by leaning back, but that could
aggravate, right? But either way, what
you want is completely vertical. Okay?
So, head slightly up, head slightly down
at the lockout. Keep your eyes on one
spot. So, that focal point, that balance
is a huge part of looking clean. So,
that's another takehome for you guys. 3
m on the floor. 3 m 3 to 4 meters on the
floor. Whole face facing, not just your
eyes. So don't just be here and then
look up with your eyes, right? Whole
whole face and then tuck the chin at the
lock out. I I like to watch on all
angles with my deadlift. With my squat,
I just like 45° front on. So a little
bit of an angle. Um but with my deadlift
for aesthetics, for the page, 45 degrees
front on. But if you want to really
learn, you got to expose the worst
angles. So do the side view on the next
ones. But this one is uh 220. So not too
heavy.
Okay. So now comfortable. Hey, I'll tell
you something I haven't thought about is
my hamstring/add
adductor that I uh hurt on squat day.
Let me tell you what the technique
looked like from this view. I feel like
you can come in. I feel like my hips
shot up a bit
early. I was pretty good. It was pretty
It was pretty good. That was pretty
clean. No, it's a bit Romanian
deadlifty. Yeah, I reckon I could use my
legs a little bit better. I'm going to
do that again maybe a couple of times
before I do the 270. How do you use your
legs more better?
Bend them more. Yeah. So, I feel like my
hips are high. My start position is my
hips are a little bit too high. I'm
being a little bit too conservative. I
think I need to sit my butt down a
little bit more. Bend the knees a little
bit
more. And a cue that I use for deadlift
is to think about push the world away.
So, so people say, is it a push or a
pull? You can't deadlift without
pulling, right? You have to pull. But
you can deadlift without pushing. Okay?
So a deadlift without a push is lock
your knees out. That's a stiff leged
deadlift, right? So that's a deadlift
without a there's no push there. There's
no leg drive. It's pure pull. So
therefore, because you can't deadlift
without pull. Stop thinking about pull.
Like you're you're going to pull. Think
push. Right? So the way that I like to
think about it is you lock your body in
place and you push the world away.
Right? So imagine the barbells still and
the floor will will come down. So that's
how you got to think of it. Or another
way you can think of it is like a leg
press. So think you've locked your body
in position, locked your torso and
instead of thinking of pull up, think
lock lock that away and then push down.
Okay? So that's what I'm trying to do.
So I'll try and do that. I mean, it was,
you know, nice form, which is like, you
know, straight back or whatever, but not
very strong. That's not how I want to be
maxing out. I don't want to be maxing
out. That's not the most efficient
position. I want to bend my knees more
and drive those legs through the ground
a little bit more aggressively. Okay,
let's do that again. You have to earn
the right to add weight to the bar. So,
if
you do a set, so it's like, you know,
the logical warm-ups. This is not what I
do. I don't just go, "Okay, we did warm
up on 220, so you got to do the next
one, the next one." If I need to work on
something, I don't go add weight, and
then hope to work on it. I work on it,
fix it at the same weight, and then once
I've done that, then I'll add weight.
Especially on these sessions, do you
know what I mean? Like, this is a test
session. I'm not testing my one rep max.
I'm just testing my limits at the
moment. Not limits, I shouldn't say
that. I'm saying the wrong words. I'm
just seeing my baseline. Baseline, not
limit. Limits up here. Baseline's down
here. That's where I'm working towards.
Maybe an
RP7. You're recording Shalen. Look at
the technique. It's pretty good. See
that? She's doing the same things that
I'm doing, right? So look, she's picked
a spot 3 m in front. Her head's rigid on
that spot. Doesn't change. So when she
starts, she's slightly up. When she
finishes, she's slightly down. Same
cues, but it's nice to see. So same
cues, but the way it presents on
different lifters is slightly different.
felt
okay. Yeah, it's pretty easy. It's It's
only
220. Yeah, that was uh that's pretty
good.
I
like very nice.
Yeah. Good. It's like
nothing. But at the same
time, hamstrings shouldn't really be
hugely active during
deadlifts. Okay? They're on. I'm not
saying that they're not on, but they're
not the best hamstring builder.
Hamstrings have two functions that is
hip extension and knee flexion. Right?
When I bend over for the deadlift, so
think of this action, right? So that
stretches the hamstrings, right? But
then that relaxes the hamstrings. So you
can feel it yourself if you to touch
bend over and touch your toes and then
you bend the knees. It's way way easier
cuz that takes the tension off the
hamstrings, which is what you're doing
with a deadlift. If you hit your your
hamstrings in a deadlift, you want to do
Romanian deadlifts where you're not
bending the knees that much. You get it?
You maintain tension on the hamstrings
by locking the knees in place. Not like
completely locked, slight bend, but
locked in this position. Right? So, when
you do a conventional deadlift, you're
relieving tension off the hamstrings.
So, therefore, you're not stimulating
much muscle growth or activity in the
hamstrings because it's a barticular
muscle, crosses two joints. If you have
hamstring injuries, it kind of makes
sense that you might be able to do
deadlifts as well as
squats. Now, I know the technical people
at home are going to say, "Well, how did
you hurt yourself doing a squat then if
it's not active in a squat?" Yeah, good
question. Because sometimes it's just
the weakest link, right? Which is why we
still need to strengthen those muscles.
Uh, you know, and especially in a low
bar squat. The low bar squat is more
hamstrings slightly. even though there's
not a huge amount, it's slightly more
than a high bar squat because it's more
hip dominant. I'm pushing my hips back
further and further. So, there's a
little bit of tension on the hamstrings.
Um, but then that's just how it goes
when you're pushing your limits. Like
I've I've injured pecs doing deadlifts.
I've injured triceps doing deadlifts.
I've I've strained my neck doing
deadlifts, you know? So, it's like
unrelated muscles. the obviously the
hamstrings a lot more related with your
squat and deadlift but you know when
you're maxing out when you're pushing
yourself like you're contracting all
sorts of muscles
unintentionally. So, you know, when you
max out, it's not
perfect, okay? And that's, you know, the
sometimes tweaks like that, like maybe
if you zoomed in and really analyzed my
top squat, you know, maybe I was on
unbalanced, maybe I shifted more to one
side. I I don't know, whatever. That's
just what happens. That's life. And
that's totally fine. And that's why we
do accessory exercises, right? So,
that's why I I'll strengthen those
muscles that are part of the equation,
but not so much. That's why I'll do
hamstring curls after and leg extensions
after. You have a set program. Are you
going to decide on your program after
this session? Yeah, I'm going to decide
on the program after this session. Uh,
exactly. So, I still want to do some
more uh quad work. So, that's something
that I'll never not do. So, my my quads,
that's that's my that's my baseline.
Sorry, not my quads, my squat strength.
That's my baseline. When my squats up,
everything's up. So, I don't want to
even though I'm doing deadlift
specialization, I'm not going to turn my
back from squats. And right now I'm I'm
doing a lot of great work by doing
squats twice a week. So low volume
squats two times per week. I don't want
to just specialize on deadlift and
neglect the squats. I still want to keep
the like the squats will always stay
there, but I just won't be maxing out on
the squats every week. So after this, I
want to do more quad work.
[Applause]
It's
okay. It's
okay. Slow down for
sure from the 220. Let's
see. It's okay. I might just do another
set of one. That's not fatiguing.
Definitely harder than the 220. Of
course, it was 50 kg more. Um,
definitely not
max. Could have done more reps of that.
It was quite comfortable. Didn't take me
out of
position. The goal is to keep it
submaximal. I'll do one more set of one.
You know, a lot of great deadlifters do
a lot of rep work. For me, uh, my rep
work comes from volume
from squats. Right now, I will do some
some type of rep work. So, the rep work
that I typically like to do for
deadlifts is is the accessories. So,
Romanian deadlifts. And I'll tell you
another really great uh deadlift that I
accessory that I like to do is a pause
deficit deadlift. Um I wouldn't mind
doing a little bit of
that, but maybe I'll just introduce that
in um next week's program. What I do
want to do is my stiletto squats. I want
to do another week of stiletto squats.
Uh mainly because megaexia. I'm scared
that my legs are going to shrink if I
don't. You know, whatever. Whatever.
That's why. What? Yeah. Yeah, but
seriously, um, you know, that's probably
why I do have a good squat because I
prioritized it. So, you know, on day
one, so Monday, all I did was two sets.
I did 300 and then it and then a back
down set of 240 and then I threw in the
towel. I didn't do any more work after
that because I thought I may be injured.
Um, and it was it was a good move, but
that means I haven't done a lot of
volume on my quads this week.
Like this is more minutes.
Yep. To be honest with you, it's a bit
heavy today. Maybe I am guarding my
hamstring. Maybe I'm fatigued from my
squat. Sometimes it's
like it's it's pretty good. Like I think
if I had to do 300 kgs today, I'd be
able to for
sure. Of course I'd be able to do 300
kgs. But anyway, uh that's me for
deadlifts today. Next up, uh stiletto
squats. Rest? Not really. Like I don't
really need to rest. That's not
fatiguing. And I'm going to go straight
into a warm-up set for stiletto squats
anyway. Do you know what I mean? So
that's going to be my rest. I'll be able
to my rest will be however long it takes
for me to unload this. Um and then I'm
going to do
um I'll warm up from an empty bar and
I'll I'll get up to well last sets of
stiletto squats was 180 kg for eight.
190 kg is not a number. So we're going
to go straight to 200 uh and then go for
threes something like that. I'm not
going to max out but [__] who knows
knowing me I will end up maxing out on
it.
So what should she say? Stop that.
back together. Oh, and you said no. What
she What did she say to stop doing? Did
she didn't mean stop it. She was like,
"Stop it." Was it a girl? Stop it. Stop
it. Is that what that was? Not stop
[__] doing that. Oh, stop it. Oh,
there's a difference. There's a
difference. Speech. Speech. Speech.
[Music]
There. Good. Now, keep the shoulders
dropped. So, don't [__] shrug. Keep
that drop. Now, now roll there.
There. Good. Now, let's go
up. Drop the shoulders. Drop the should
there. What a
difference. Okay, I know why you're not
doing it. Cuz you want to stabilize it
and you don't want it to roll off your
body. That's why you're doing that. so
it doesn't roll off. Wrong. You got to
drop it. Okay. Yeah. And maybe use wrist
wraps. I'll tell you a cue that I've
started noticing that a lot of people do
with their squats when they're trying to
do a low bar squat. They shrug. They're
trying to hold the bar so it doesn't
roll down their back and they're
shrugging. Okay? So, this causes other
issues, but it's to put it simply, it's
weaker, right? So, what you want to do
is drop the shoulders. Same cue as
deadlifts. Increase the distance between
your shoulders and your
ears. Okay? So, the reason why people
shrug is to to balance it on the on
their back. So, use wrist wraps, lock it
in, pull your elbows back and down,
right? And and lock it in
place. Way stronger. It's a hack. It's
not It shouldn't really be a hack. It's
a hack because nobody not many people
are doing it. And I sit there and watch
people. It's like, "Okay, let's try
this." And then all of a sudden, their
squats feel stronger. Okay.
So more good news is I don't feel that
injury that I kind of injury the the
owie that I did from the squat day. Uh,
so that was my hamstring. But this is a
very the reason why I had this in mind
for today um is even less hamstring
involvement with the with the upright
stiletto squat. So the more you poke
your butt back, the more tension there
is on the hamstring. So the more upright
you are, the less h tension there is on
the hamstring. So I kind of had a
feeling that even if my hamstring was a
little bit sore today, that at the very
least I'd be able to do this squat. Uh,
and yes, confirmed. I feel nothing on
the hamstring. But I felt nothing on the
hamstring from the deadlifts as well.
So perfect. I don't think he was proud
of that lift. It was only
270. You know, he only gets happy when I
do something
decent. I think it's also I mean 270 is
not bad, but I think it moved a bit
slowly.
So I can tell by his expression he's not
impressed. So it feels like it's coming
up
easy. and it is coming up easy, but it's
uh I'd rather be on the couch at home
watching
TV.
Um, you know, so like, you know, to go
as far as to say that's comfortable.
Like it's coming up quickly. So, next
set is 180. That's what I did on the
last session. Today, I want to do 200
for a triple. We'll see. I think I think
I should be able to
It's lovely technique. I I'll I'll admit
it. But, you know, if you think about
it, this is like way lighter than what
my my big squats
are. So, it should be lovely technique.
But that's the idea of these accessory
lifts. They're not really like ego lifts
where you really have to be pumping out
heavy heavy weight. I want to be
stimulating muscle growth for this one.
So, technique is got to be pretty strict
with these exercises, right? These these
accessory exercises, you can cheat it
and make it even easier. I'll tell you
how. By letting your butt poke back,
right? So, that defeats the purpose of
this exercise. And that's what a lot of
people do is they they get the heel
elevation and they go down and they go
up. No, you can't just go down up. You
got to be upright and use your
quadriceps to stand up. Don't
go and then use your hips and back
again. So, that defeats the purpose of
it. For me, if I start doing that,
that'll tell me that the weight's too
heavy for this exercise. Rep range for
this I like between three to six rep
range. So I did 180 kgs last phase
starting on triples and then I kept on
going up up up up up till I got you see
what I did didn't you? Ah thank you man.
Thank you
man. Yes. So I did uh 180 until I got
you know started at triples until I got
six reps on that. So instead of going
you know seven reps or eight reps I like
that rep range for this exercise. Right.
It's a pretty complex movement when you
got to really focus on, you know, that
body position. As I said, 190 is not a
number. So, the goal is 200 for three,
which I think I
can. All right, let's go.
Okay, good one. That felt a lot harder
than 180s felt last week, but we got
three. So, um, go on. We'll do another
set. Let's do it.
That felt more comfortable than the
first
set. But uh that's done.
2x3. And I'm going to go and do some
fluffy stuff. A little bit of hamstring
curls. Very light. Just to see if my
hamstring like directly when I hit it
with the hamstring curls to see if it's
okay. I'm sure it's fine. fine. There's
no tears or anything major, but I didn't
do any direct hamstring work, so I can't
really tell if the muscle is strained or
injured properly, but I'll do some light
work. I know that it is a lot better and
I'll be able to continue. But that's
today's session, and that's day one of
reintroducing deadlifts to my program.
I'm going to continue to deadlift every
week. And when I say prioritize it, I
mean I'm not going to max out on my
squat. So, I'll continue to squat, but
the next phase, I'll be working towards,
I don't know, 320 kg for the deadlift.
You know, that's a weight that I've done
before and more when I was a heavy uh
heavier body weight. But let's see if we
can do it again. Thanks for joining,
guys. Uh if there's anything else you
want to see, put in the comments
section. Otherwise, I'll see you next
time.